HL7 - Kim Edits (#1323)
mulesoft/docs-connectors: hl7/4.2/modules/ROOT/edits/hl7-connector-config-topics.adoc

= HL7 EDI - Additional Configuration Information - Mule 4

> Use these options to:

Reviewer: What options?
Consider providing a more robust introduction to the content of this topic set, since the title is boilerplate and not very precise.

Author: Fixed.

> * Customize your schema Definitions

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Customize your schema definitions
```

* Define a mapping from the HL7 event and message types to message structures

* Customize global elements

== Copy and Edit Schema Definitions

> HL7 schema definitions are located in the `hl7-schemas-4.0.0.jar` file,

Reviewer: Reword to active voice.

> embedded inside HL7 EDI Connector update site and can also

Reviewer: parallelism and active voice
```suggestion
embedded inside the HL7 EDI Connector update site, and
```

> be found in the standard MuleSoft enterprise Maven repositories

Reviewer: ditto
```suggestion
within the standard MuleSoft enterprise Maven repositories
```

(under group ID `com.mulesoft.connectors`). You can copy a message structure schema

> from this JAR file and edit it to match your specific needs.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
from the `hl7-schemas-4.0.0.jar` file and edit it to match your specific needs.
```

To make changes at the segment level, copy the message structure

> schema. To change segment definitions, copy the `basedefs.esl` schema of the same version, as that file contains the segment, composite, and element definitions.

Reviewer: Are Lines 16-20 supposed to be three examples to match the three places to find the schema definitions?
If so, I would place each example with its location.
This might be more clear if we used a bullet list of the three locations, followed by their respective descriptions.

Author: STET

- { idRef: 'ROL', position: '06', usage: O, count: '>1' }
- { idRef: 'NK1', position: '07', usage: O, count: '>1' }
- { idRef: 'PV1', position: '08', usage: M }
- { idRef: 'PV2', position: '09', usage: O }
- { idRef: 'ROL', position: '10', usage: O, count: '>1' }
- { idRef: 'DB1', position: '11', usage: O, count: '>1' }
- { idRef: 'OBX', position: '12', usage: O, count: '>1' }
- { idRef: 'AL1', position: '13', usage: O, count: '>1' }
- { idRef: 'DG1', position: '14', usage: O, count: '>1' }
- { idRef: 'DRG', position: '15', usage: O }
- groupId: 'PROCEDURE'
  count: '>1'
  usage: O
  items:
  - { idRef: 'PR1', position: '17', usage: M }
  - { idRef: 'ROL', position: '18', usage: O, count: '>1' }
- { idRef: 'GT1', position: '20', usage: O, count: '>1' }
- groupId: 'INSURANCE'
  count: '>1'
  usage: O
  items:
  - { idRef: 'IN1', position: '22', usage: M }
  - { idRef: 'IN2', position: '23', usage: O }
  - { idRef: 'IN3', position: '24', usage: O, count: '>1' }
  - { idRef: 'ROL', position: '25', usage: O, count: '>1' }
- { idRef: 'ACC', position: '27', usage: O }
- { idRef: 'UB1', position: '28', usage: O }
- { idRef: 'UB2', position: '29', usage: O }
----

> This shows the list of segments comprising the `ADT_A05` message structure

Reviewer: Consider replacing "This" with more specific wording.

Reviewer: The whole **comprises** its parts. This term is frequently misused, so I recommend replacing it, per Style Ref.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This shows the list of segments that compose the `ADT_A05` message structure,
```

> including the segment groups PROCEDURE and INSURANCE. Since this example is

Reviewer: See Style Ref re. "since" vs. "because."

Reviewer: ```suggestion
including the segment groups PROCEDURE and INSURANCE. Because this example illustrates
```

> the standard definition (not the lax version), it includes mandatory

Reviewer: ```suggestion
the standard definition (not the lax version), it includes both mandatory
```

> segments (indicated with `usage: M`) as well as optional segments

Reviewer: ```suggestion
segments (indicated with `usage: M`) and optional segments
```

> (indicated with `usage: O`). The full set of usage codes used for HL7 are:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
(indicated with `usage: O`). The full set of usage codes used for HL7 includes:
```

> * `C` for Conditional (equivalent to Optional)

Reviewer: Break to improve list scannability:
```suggestion
* `C` for Conditional
+
Equivalent to Optional
```

* `M` for Mandatory
* `O` for Optional

> * `U` for Unused (accepted without warning when reading, but not present

Reviewer: ditto:
```suggestion
* `U` for Unused
+
Accepted without warning when reading, but not present
```

> in the data passed on from the read operation and ignored when writing.)

Reviewer: Not a sentence: no period
```suggestion
in the data passed on from the read operation and ignored when writing
```

The possible number of occurrences of a segment or group is defined by the
count value. This defaults to a value of `1`.

To delete segments from the message structure or change segment requirements from mandatory to optional (or vice versa), make the change in your copy of the schema and use the modified version in your application.

You can add segments that are not present in the original message

> structure definition. First remove the position values from all existing segment and group definition lines in the schema, otherwise you need to renumber everything following an added segment.

Reviewer: The use of "First" here led me to expect a sequence of actions (task?), but no chronological actions follow?

Reviewer: ```suggestion
structure definition. First, remove the position values from all existing segment and group definition lines in the schema; otherwise, you must renumber everything following an added segment.
```

If you remove the explicit position numbers, segments and groups are assigned
position numbers sequentially, and for most purposes these numbers are not

> seen by HL7 EDI Connector applications.

Reviewer: Is this even necessary, given that we have just instructed the audience to remove position values?

Author: STET

If you want to add a standard HL7 segment to a message structure,
reference it with an `idRef` line at the appropriate place, and HL7 obtains
the definition from the `basedefs.esl` file referenced as an import.

The following partial example shows `CON` segments added to an ADT_A05 message structure:

[source,yaml,linenums]
----
form: HL7
version: '2.5.1'
imports: [ '/hl7/v2_5_1/basedefs.esl' ]
id: 'ADT_A05'
name: 'ADT_A05'
data:
- { idRef: 'MSH', usage: M }
- { idRef: 'SFT', usage: O, count: '>1' }
- { idRef: 'EVN', usage: M }
- { idRef: 'PID', usage: M }
- { idRef: 'PD1', usage: O }
- { idRef: 'CON', usage: O, count: '>1' }
- { idRef: 'NTE', usage: O }
- { idRef: 'ROL', usage: O, count: '>1' }
- { idRef: 'NK1', usage: O, count: '>1' }
- { idRef: 'PV1', usage: M }
- { idRef: 'PV2', usage: O }
- { idRef: 'CON', usage: O, count: '>1' }
- { idRef: 'ROL', usage: O, count: '>1' }
...
----

> If you want to define a non-standard segment for your message structure,

Reviewer: GLOBALLY remove hyphens after prefixes (with a few exceptions, per Style Ref.)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If you want to define a nonstandard segment for your message structure,
```

add the segment definition to the schema. This is more complex than just

> modifying the segment structure, as you need to list all components

Reviewer: See style ref. re. "as" vs. "because":
```suggestion
modifying the segment structure, because you need to list all components
```

> in the segment. The easiest starting point for this is to find a similar

Reviewer: ```suggestion
in the segment. The easiest starting point is to find a similar
```

standard HL7 segment and copy the definition used for that standard

> segment from the `basedefs.esl` file. You can then add the segments key

Reviewer: "the segments key"?
Will your audience know what this is, it not being mentioned earlier?
And do you mean "the segment's key," possessive?

Author: Fixed.

following your message structure definition, followed by one or more
segment definitions.

> 

Reviewer: BREAK to commit

Reviewer: RESUME, beginning second-commit edits

> === Set Your Schema Locations

Reviewer: Please reevaluate your topic structure: is this really a (solitary) subtopic to copying and editing?

You can configure schema locations in the Anypoint Studio XML view.

> . Switch to the XML view by clicking *Configuration XML*.

Reviewer: "switch" from what starting point?

Author: Fixed.

. Modify your HL7 EDI configuration to include a list of all the schemas to include by adding an `+<http://edischema[edi:schema]>+` element for each document type:
+
[source,xml,linenums]
----
<hl7-edi:config name="HL7_EDI__Configuration" identKeys="true" doc:name="HL7 EDI: Configuration">
  <hl7-edi:schemas>
    <hl7-edi:schema>hl7/v2_6/ADT_A01.esl</hl7-edi:schema>
  </hl7-edi:schemas>
</hl7-edi:config>
----
+

> . After you create a global element for your HL7 EDI, configure the message structure, operations, and acknowledgments.

Reviewer: This led me to expect separate subtopics about configuration, operation, and acknowledgement that I do not see following....

Author: Fixed.

> == Event and Message to Message Structure Map

Reviewer: ```suggestion
== Event and Message-to-Message Structure Map
```

If you configure the connector with multiple message structure schemas
(whether in separate schema definitions files, as with the provided schemas,

> or in a single file) you need to define a mapping from the HL7 event

Reviewer: ```suggestion
or in a single file), you must define a mapping from the HL7 event
```

and message types to message structures.

> HL7 defines the Message Type in the component values of `MSH-09`, a composite

Reviewer: Why capitalize Message Type?

Reviewer: In all of the following text, GLOBALLY evaluate the need to capitalize such nouns: are they really proprietary names? Are they actually UI labels (bold) or CLI syntax (mono)? See style ref. entry for capitalization.

structure of type MSG. HL7 EDI Connector uses these component values to find the structure schema to use for processing a receive message, according to the following rules:

* If the MSG-01 Message Code value is `ACK`, always use the predefined ACK schema.
* If the MSG-03 Message Structure value is present (a value such
as `ADT_A01`), use the schema structure with that ID.

> * If neither of these, then use a configured Event and Message to Message Structure Map to determine

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* If neither of these, then use a configured Event and Message-to-Message Structure Map to determine
```

the message structure from the specified Trigger Event (`MSG-02`) and Message Code (`MSG-01`) values.

> The Event and Message to Message Structure Map is an optional configuration parameter.

Reviewer: GLOBAL: hyphenate message-to-message if it is a compound adjective, as I suspect.

It must be a YAML file consisting of a map from each Event Type to a map for each
supported Message Code to the actual Message Structure.

Here's an example:

[source,yaml,linenums]
----
A01: { XYZ: ADT_A01, ACK: ACK }
A02: { XYZ: ADT_A02, ACK: ACK }
A03: { XYZ: ADT_A03, ACK: ACK }
A04: { XYZ: ADT_A01, ACK: ACK }
A05: { XYZ: ADT_A05, ACK: ACK }
A06: { XYZ: ADT_A06, ACK: ACK }
A07: { XYZ: ADT_A06, ACK: ACK }
A08: { XYZ: ADT_A01, ACK: ACK }
----

Each version of HL7 defines a different set of mappings from the event type and
message code to the message structure. The default mappings are provided in the

> same JAR as the standard HL7 schema definitions, in files named `event-message.yaml`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
same JAR file as the standard HL7 schema definitions, in files named `event-message.yaml`.
```

You use the same type of paths for these mapping definitions as for the actual message structure schemas.

> === General Tab

Reviewer: Consider "Uses for the General Tab"

Use the *General* tab to configure settings for reading and writing HL7 messages:

> * HL7 character encoding, always used for writing messages and used

Reviewer: GLOBALLY evaluate list items for scanability. Break after the first element in an item, if it has a subject and then a definition or explanation, per SR:
```suggestion
* HL7 character encoding
+
Always used for writing messages. Used
```

when reading messages unless a different encoding is specified by MSH-18 (Character Set).

> * Disable numeric prefixes for data keys - this option is true by

Reviewer: ditto
```suggestion
* Disable numeric prefixes for data keys
+
This option is true by
```

default, which turns off numeric prefixes for segment data. The

> only reason to turn this option off is for compatibility with mappings

Reviewer: ```suggestion
only reason to set this option as false is to achieve compatibility with mappings
```

> defined for the HL7 EDI Connector 3.0.0.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
defined for HL7 EDI Connector 3.0.0.
```

> * Manually create or edit the list of schemas.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Manually create or edit the list of schemas
```

=== Set Your HL7 Identification in the Visual Editor

You can configure the Message Header (MSH) application and facility

> identification for you and your trading partner on the HL7 EDI connector configuration.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
identification for you and your trading partner in the HL7 EDI Connector configuration.
```

> The values you set are used when writing HL7 messages to supply the

Reviewer: Consider rewording to active voice.

namespace ID, universal ID, and universal ID type, and are verified

> in receive messages. If you don't want to restrict incoming messages

Reviewer: ```suggestion
in receive messages. If you don't want to restrict incoming messages,
```

> then leave these blank, and set the values for outgoing messages

Reviewer: ```suggestion
then leave these blank and set the values for outgoing messages
```

on the write operation or the actual outgoing message. Values set on
the write operation override the connector configuration, and values
set directly on the message override both the connector configuration
and any values set on the write operation.

> In Studio, these values are set in these Global Element Properties.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In Studio, these values are set in the following Global Element Properties:
```
End a list introduction with a colon, per SR.
GLOBALLY evaluate use of "this" and "these" to ensure that what you are referring to is very clear.

* Self identification parameters identify your side of the trading partner relationship.
+

> Self identification settings:

Reviewer: Do not use fragments like this one. Either make this a complete sentence or incorporate it into the sentence above.
Per style ref.

+
[source,text,linenums]
----
Mule Application Namespace ID (MSH-03/HD-01 when sending, MSH-05/HD-01 when receiving)
Mule Application Universal ID (MSH-03/HD-02 when sending, MSH-05/HD-02 when receiving)
Mule Application Universal ID Type (MSH-03/HD-03 when sending, MSH-05/HD-03 when receiving)
----
+
* Partner identification parameters identify your trading partner.
+

> Partner identification settings:

Reviewer: ditto

+
[source,text,linenums]
----
Partner Application Namespace ID (MSH-03/HD-01 when receiving, MSH-05/HD-01 when sending)
Partner Application Universal ID (MSH-03/HD-02 when receiving, MSH-05/HD-02 when sending)
Partner Application Universal ID Type (MSH-03/HD-03 when receiving, MSH-05/HD-03 when sending)
----

=== Parser Tab

> You can set the following options if needed:

Reviewer: Do you want to say anything more about "if needed"? Under what circumstances might they be needed?

Author: They are optional, that should be enough as users will know when then need to use this.

[%header%autowidth.spread]

> |===

Reviewer: This should be a definition list instead of a table.

Author: STET for now.

|XML Value |Studio Option

> |eventMessageMap="/hl7/v2_5_1/event-message.yaml" |Event and message to message structure map path (required if using multiple message structures, unless the MSH-09 and MSG-03 message structure values are always present in the received messages).

Reviewer: Punctuation GLOBALS
```suggestion
|eventMessageMap="/hl7/v2_5_1/event-message.yaml" |Event and message-to-message structure map path (required if using multiple message structures, unless the MSH-09 and MSG-03 message structure values are always present in the received messages)
```

> |genericExtensionPattern="Z.." |Java regular pattern for generic extension segment names (to allow handling of extension segments as maps of field values).

Reviewer: GLOBALLY remove periods from the Studio option fragments. I will stop marking after this:
```suggestion
|genericExtensionPattern="Z.." |Java regular pattern for generic extension segment names (to allow handling of extension segments as maps of field values)
```

|invalidCharacterInValueFail="true" |Fail when an invalid character is in a value.
|missingRequiredValueFail="true" |Fail when a required value is missing.
|processingId="PRODUCTION" |Required processing ID (to specify a particular processing ID required on receive messages, such as `P` for Production).
|segmentOutOfOrderFail="true" |Fail when a segment is out of order in a message.
|unknownSegmentFail="true" |Fail when an unknown segment is in a message.
|unusedSegmentPresentFail="true" |Fail when an unused segment is included in a message.

> |validateHL7Version="true" |Validate HL7 Message Version

Reviewer: Why capitalize Message Version?

|valueLengthErrorFail="true" |Fail when a value length is outside an allowed range.
|wrongSegmentsRepeatsFail="true" |Fail when there are too many repeats of a segment.

> |wrongValuesRepeatsFail="true" |Fail when there are too many repeats of a value.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
|wrongValuesRepeatsFail="true" |Fail when there are too many repetitions of a value.
```

|===

== Next Step

> After you complete configuring the connector, you can try

Reviewer: ```suggestion
After you complete connector configuration, you can try
```
OR
```suggestion
After you finish configuring the connector, you can try
```
See style ref. entry for "complete."
